# Smokestack
This is Mihir. I have this problem where I can't ever seem to get 8 hours or more of sleep unless I sleep at or after 12am. This is a serious problem, as it causes a lot of friction with my long-held belief that I'm an "early riser." Although that may just be because I never found my perfect sleep cycle. Oh well, it turns out 10:30pm isn't optimal sleeping time for me, I seem to always wake up at like 1:30am whenever I do that, and then go back to sleep - inevitably then waking up at like 10am, which makes sense, as 1:30am satisfies the 12am criteria for proper sleep for me.  
Anyway, that's great and all, but the real issue is that the house goes silent without fail at around 10pm. But if I go to bed, I just end up scrolling reels or some other stupid shit. And I'm trying earnestly to cut down on my reel scrolling time. And more than that, I just don't like going to bed early but also don't like doing nothing. I also don't like watching TV (although that has changed recently shoutout https://letterboxd.com/mg343/), so the question becomes: What to do to kill the time?  
Since I entered high school, the answer to this has always been just sit down with a glass of water and watch YouTube videos. Not a very great step up from watching TV (in fact, what really is the difference), but the best part is that it's on my computer - and I can then search up whatever the hell I want to search up stemming from and around said videos. This has led to countless nights of meticulous research on ridiciously stupid and useless information.  
But I feel like there's some, maybe a tiny amount, but some cool stuff that can be gleaned from them. So today, 8/11/2025, I've decided to start keeping a bit of a log! It's probably going to be pretty crappy, and might die out soon considering college awaits, but it might be cool. I have no clue what the format should be or anything, but I guess I'll just mess around and improve it as it goes. Performative as I am, I think I'm going to include my "niche" music for the day - just literally look at it on https://www.last.fm/user/mg343 if it really means anything to you. So that's it. Enjoy!  
I'm calling this smokestack in reference to this one really unique zine series I picked up at a thrift store on Bainbridge Island off the coast of Seattle. Really cool, should check it out (https://kitsapsmokestack.org/).  

<br>

# Log
## 8/11/2025  
1. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DKAusMNTNnk&ab_channel=VICE  
I've always thought Kyrgyzstan would be a great place to live after getting rich off of the US's fucked up capitalist system. Could get away from all the fuckiness and just chill. In my head the cities were all just nomadic  people who like smoked weed and just danced and hiked and farmed. I guess though that should have been the first indication; nomadic people were pretty messed up. Especially back in the day. Traditions are weird. And with Kyrgyzstan being so seperated from global affairs (in the sense I never hear about it in the news, which in retrospect might not be exactly the best way to figure out seperation from global affairs), it;s probably the perfect palce for nomadic people with weird traditions to live! And as derived, the video. Ew, ew, ew. Messed up weird. Although I feel like the comments did a terrible job of understanding how powerful belief in a system or religion is, like yes it's disgusting and all that, but if they believe it's tradition, then who are we to step in and tell them to not do it? Maybe that's naive. Does that have parallels to like the Taliban and how Westerner's think of Sharia Law as so tragic (which again, it really is), but a majority of women there take it to be the norm (see: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iYL-UuNE_9w&ab_channel=TheNewYorker)? It's obviously a messed up norm because it's made up and enforced by men in opression of women. I don't know. Disturbing video.  
Anyways, the next part of all of that is the Epic of Manas is pretty interesting. The Kyrgyzstan sort of foundational document. Like the Quran or Bible for them. It's kind of funny because it was just a few weeks ago I was doing a lot of reading on Nihon Shoki, which I guess is Japan's similar counterpart. Anyways, the Epic of Manas is pretty cool. Supposedly, the entire version is "twenty times longer than the Homeric epics Iliad (15693) and Odyssey (12110) taken together." Crazy. Funnier, the whole bride-kidnapping thing isn't even in any of it. In the video the "bride-kidnapping expert" (HELLO??) points out a really interesting thing that the whole movement of bridge kidnapping was actually in rebellion of the system not giving young couples enough automony in terms of who to choose and when. Which is very counter-intuitive. He gives this fascinating example (probably misread) of how when the Soviets took over Kyrgyzstan, kids under 15 weren't allowed to marry in family tradition, so the whole kidnapping thing may have started in essense because 2 young teens we're in love with each other, wanted to get around this rule, and found the way out to be by kidnapping: if the girl were to spend a night with the guy (willingly in the eyes of the couple, forcefully in the eyes of the family, but all in all it doesn't necessarily matter how), the family would consider this to be a sign of disgrace (this is a traditional thing), and thus disown her - thereby ridding the young couple of the 15 year old traditional marriage age, and could run away and live a life together. But that ended up turning into the stuff shown in the video. What a wild thing.  
Also interesting is how the person who has done the most translating of the Epic of Manas into English happens to be Dr. Elmira Köchümkulova, who at the time, was PhD candidate at UWashington Seattle! I was just there like a week ago! Crazy coincidence.  
Also side note this was exactly at 9 which is a funny good indicator of when I sort of start to get the stupid juices flowing. Maybe I'll just go through my history up until 9pm every day and then I could maybe see when I started this daily and compile it from the last 4 yrs as well. I probably won't.  

2. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QL_3Qg-SADY&ab_channel=VICE  
To be honest, it really wasn't this video. It really was a combination of the first, this, and in between I also watched https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QL_3Qg-SADY which was also pretty cool, but the main takeaway that motivated the second (2 in one night!) interesting rabbit hole was that VICE is pretty damn cool. Namely Shane Smith, who I guess is one of 3 co-founders but seems to be the face of the company - also what the hell one of the co-founders of VICE started the Proud Boys. Shane Smith is rad. As shown in all the video's, he either takes part in, or sets up, trips and deep dives into so many fascinating corners of the globe that no one really covers. Take this one for instance, dude covers the NeurIPS for Machine Guns (like machine learning get it). The Special Operations Forces Exhibition. By itself this is something one could rant about for a while. A bunch of generals from all across the world meet up and buy new weapons to kill each other with. I mean the magnitude of implications at play here! First off like imagine all of the rival countries! And they just so casually talk to each other and buy the weapons they're going to kill each other with! And the US funds like all of it! I mean they host the conference, a majority of the companies there are US companies, and they also provide the fucking aid to the other companies that are there, and those companies just go back in and buy the US stuff! It's so messed up it's crazy. Also they have this seemingly useless like summer camp for militaries to train them for like Special Ops missions, which is in concept so stupid to me but I guess they make money so good for them. I mean if anything it goes to show the ridiculous amount of money that's in the global military complex - they;re in there with their pointless summer camp for killers which realistically provides minimal value, but theirs either a ridiculous  amount of funding that the US can make and waste money on something like this, or the countries that use it are simply paying SO MUCH money for it. All of that is so insane to me.  
Shane Smith essentially started VICE to do all this crazy investigative journalism which is so compelling and engaging that he's made this thing into a muli-billion dollar company, himself becoming a billionaire in the process. Fantastic. What he hasn't done is made the company structure easy to navigate because why the hell are there so many fucking things called VICE and VICE News and VICE MEDIA, and VICE Magazine, and VICE TV, and vbs.tv, it's all very confusing. I mean look at the wiki article. How do you start by listing all of the subsidiaries but then start the next paragraph off by listing another subsidiary. When does it end. One would probably ask well Mihir why the hell do you care about the structure of the company. I don't. I care about the global news stuff, which I eventually figured out was VICE News, and the old shit they put out because to me at first it seemed like there was a significant drop in coverage quality from VICE after Shane Smith stopped the ground level journalism, but I soon realised that it was because I was looking on the fucking VICE MEDIA channel not the News channel. Fuck this confusing shit. Ok but for real they've done a fantastic job maintaining quality over the years, the journalism is still top notch. At some point I recognized this and just scoured the internet trying to find Shane Smith's earliest content (cool weird formatted shots like this one: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1_yOI_WVGdY&ab_channel=VICE), but (neat segue), wouldn't ya know it the Columbia in me wanted representation and boom straight from the Wikipedia page: "Vice News won a number of awards for its reporting, including four Peabody Awards and the inaugural Pulitzer Prize for Audio Reporting." Columbia hasn't done much, but it sure has made a name in the Journalism industry, thanks Joseph Pulitzer (who didn't even go there lmao).  
Audio Reporting is not one that usually gets the spotlight (it might be, I just made that up), but, in a cool turn of events like in the Epic of Manas case, it does for a state special to my heart, New Hampshire! The redirect for the Pulitzer Prize for Audio Reporting takes you directly to the wiki page for recent winners, and in 2024, NHPR was literally a finalist for it. I mean what are the odds of that. I did a search of the Pulitzer "database" (why does no formal one exist?) and there literally hasn't been any other mention of NH in over 15 years. Assuming 23 prizes and 3 finalists per prize, there was over 1000 total finalists and of the 4 I saw (the 3 from 2024 and the winner of 2025), one of them was the one from NH. What are the odds of that (0.4%!)? Pretty wild. Even funnier, my sister is actively looking for journalism opportunities to explore so she can gain experience during high school and for her college apps. What a find. That's a pretty remarkable coincidence. Big ups to Lauren Chooljian, and boo Trump for fucking up funding to public media. Which is also funny because "NHPR does not receive funding from the state of New Hampshire." But the sentiment remains, boo Trump for messing up everything. I think that's it. I mean I did a bit more looking into NH winners, apparently in 2008 a person at the Concord Monitor won for Photography, but the crazier thing is that there literally isn't a copy of their work online? I mean talk about a lack of art culture people this is something to be celebrated. Ok that's it for sure. Time to see how it looks on GitHub! Sorry for the bad formatting, idk how to use markdown. See you tomorrow maybe if I do this again.  

<be>
🎼 MIKE and Action Bronson's Tiny Desks! A few words on this - NPR is so great for making all this stuff free. And imagine the excitment on my face when just a couple days ago they put goat on Tiny Desk. Just wonderful.  

⌛ Total Writing Time: 1.5hrs (how can I do this but not focus on anything else for over an hour. That's pretty cool)  

